[Music]
hi everyone welcome to
and uaf chat with me ariel from app
figures
and today i have costa who has been a
dub
the app hunter by the verge
um that's just a label that i like ab
acosta has been
has been fighting a good fight and
putting out their apps that are doing
things that should not be done or doing
things
that are unexpected by users we can
label them scams but really
it's deteriorating the ecosystem and
making users not trust the app store and
that's really why i
wanted to talk to costa today i've known
costa for a while now he started talking
to do this on twitter what around
january i think it started picking up
speed
or steam and we've been talking ever
since um
and casa is really nice and he uh agreed
to join us so thank you for joining us
costa
thank you for having me um and so yes
my name is costa lefterio i've been a
developer on the app store ever since
the
beginning days uh as a matter of fact uh
my very first app i steam was a silly
little magic trick and i remember using
figures even back then 2009 or so i want
to say
and so more recently i've been working
on uh
a keyboard app for the apple watch
and that's something that i've had a lot
of experience in like keyboard
technology so i've invested a lot of
time
in bringing what i thought was and is a
very useful tool for
apple watch users something that is
lacking um
for from what apple is offering as
built-in options
and so um it was maybe three years ago
that i
i started working on this and eventually
launched it and
beyond a few other things that that
happened and were
roadblocks what happened was as soon as
i launched i noticed
that my app became very successful but
at the same time it attracted
a lot of uh competition which you know
is fine by all means
uh it's not a game i expected in fact
in fact i had been planning um as to how
do i
make sure that i stay ahead you know
launch something that's already quite
ahead of what people would be able to do
quickly and then
um have even plans to to further defend
myself from the competition
but what happened was um and i noticed
this
almost as a new category was created of
keyboard apps for the apple watch i saw
developers that literally just put
together
the most bare bones copy of my app if
you want which
is you know a keyboard just put some
buttons on the screen
from their perspective and then they
used even my marketing material
even my own video with my name on it
to advertise their app with with
you know insane subscription uh charges
and kind of tricking people into uh
getting their app
and and i was baffled for a long time i
was like
how are these people so successful when
their keyboard
doesn't really do anything other than
have some buttons on the screen you know
i worked
i worked really hard to make it not just
possible but easy and practical to type
on the watch there's a lot of
auto correction algorithms behind the
scenes that do a lot of heavy lifting
and i kept being so puzzled my wife was
asking
but we basically would not understand
what was going on and the
the the scam apps would have very good
ratings like stellar ratings 4.5 4.8
um and that's on top of a lot of
problems with the with the apple watch
you know there's
uh sometimes like people can't install
the apps it's not as reliable as
installing an app on the phone so
um it was it was only many months later
almost a year later
that we realized that these people are
also manipulating and gaining
the app store ratings and reviews
and i think some people have heard about
that being possible
and at least maybe more people have
heard about that
happening on google play um but it's
actually something that is
i realized that after the fact is it's
it's happening a lot
like the scale to which this is
happening on the app store
it would it would blow most people's
minds if they realize just how much of
that is happening and it hurts
both users and developers right
um and so i tried to contact apple
uh get in touch with the legal team and
you know submit whatever
forms i had to to go through to
bring this to their attention in the
hopes that they would do something um
and their response was just even more
baffling they were like basically
you need to sort it out with a developer
we're going to be observing the email
thread and just
let us know um what happens
and and the the scammers
were even using like my app name
trademark and all and they just made the
most minor change which was
not helpful in any way everybody ignored
our accusations of manipulation for the
ratings
and so apple was like okay we consider
this matter resolved now
and i was like no this is not resolved
what are you talking about
and so i even emailed them privately to
say you know i have a lot of other
information for other scammers and
this is like a big problem all this fake
ratings and fake reviews
and i never got a response and so
it occurred to me that maybe this is not
an isolated case maybe this
this is something that happens too often
where a developer or a user might
complain and then their complaint
doesn't really go
far and so eventually it was as you
pointed out it was the in january was
the very last
day of january where i took it to
twitter and i just decided to
make my story public in the hopes that
other people would see
there would be more visibility on the
issue and maybe something would be done
and it was it something did happen
within about
i think a day or so apple took down
some of the competing scam maps
and then i realized that the
the rabbit hole goes even deeper because
what did what apple did they removed
some of these apps but they didn't seem
to really look at their developer
accounts where
these guys were running even bigger
scams
in addition to the apple watch keyboard
and so
i i i then i then posted about that and
obviously
at that point those other scans didn't
affect me personally anymore
but it was really odd that they didn't
seem to do anything about those other
video scams
and so i posted about those and then
soon enough they took down
their entire developer accounts and i
started getting weird messages
from the scammers saying you know my
business is destroyed and i would do
anything
to to get it back and all that and um
and and for a little while i felt like
okay maybe
maybe that's okay right now um i mean
they didn't take down all the scammers
that were affecting me but
i was like okay let's see what happens
from here on and then people
started sending me all these stories you
won't believe ariel like the things that
i
i i've seen and heard
uh you know gut-wrenching stories about
people just like me investing
so much time and effort in building
something and then basically having
their business stolen away from them by
people that are manipulating the system
uh while apple doesn't seem to be doing
much
um and so
um i don't know if you had any other
specific question i mean i could go on
and on about the story
uh and there's a particular scan that
kind of like
um led to a lot more events after that
um but yeah i'd be happy to you know
dive deeper in whatever aspect you feel
like is the more interesting one
oh i'd love to hear those stories i
don't know if we have time for a lot of
stories but
the ones that are more the ones that
that you know
bring the point across definitely before
we do that
i see there's a lot of chatter in the
chat that's great if you have any
questions or
i want to contribute or want to tell us
about how this is also happening to you
because
the ever since i announced that we're
going to have costa on the show
i started getting emails from people
saying oh i'm also in this position
i'm so excited that i'll get to see
someone who's doing this or
i'm also trying to sue because of this
it's going to be great
so yeah please share and tell us what's
going on and for the one person who said
is this
aso the answer is no this has nothing to
do with app store optimization
this is legitimately just a scan by
definition but
so yeah keep putting questions into the
chat into the questions tab if you can
it doesn't really make a big difference
i'm going to monitor both but before we
even
go into into story so i i think it's
anyone who made an app knows how much
effort you need
to put in before you have anything and
then you shift and it feels so good
right and then someone takes that so i i
know the feeling
um i know what it feels like but when it
comes to scam
what are you where do you draw the line
what do you say oh this app just does
some shady stuff and this app
is obviously a scam that's out to just
take people's money how do you do that
so if you think about what a scam is i
mean if you go back to the definition of
it
um it's about uh something that is using
deceptive practices right to
to get your money um and so
this this seed you see it in in many
different ways
it manifests as you know the marketing
or the screenshots or the claims or the
description
uh or it could be dark patterns inside
the app um
trying to manipulate manipulate you into
starting a subscription
um so that is the thing that have
that all scams have in common like
they're trying to
deceive you the other thing that they
all have in common
is something that is derived from that
which is that
if there's something out there like a
product that keeps trying to deceive
people then
eventually people are going to complain
about it
and as a matter of fact they're going to
complain specifically
about the fact that they're being
deceived
right they're gonna be calling it a scan
um
and so um
i think there's this so many egregious
cases
uh on the app store for apps that that
are barely usable
and charged up to i've seen like a dog
whistle app
that i couldn't tell if it was even
working and it would charge 520
a year uh and and that
even using some stolen content uh from
someone else in order to justify an
ongoing subscription i mean why would
you need a subscription for a
dog whistle app um and so scans come in
many different flavors uh and and some
are are done better if you want than
others where
you don't realize it's a scam until it's
too late or like much later than that um
like it could be a scam that's obviously
a lot of people or it could be something
that looks really highly polished where
scammers actually put a lot of effort
into making everything look as nice as
possible
until the point where they get your
money like the experience after that is
often if not always like
uh leaves a lot to be desired if it
works at all
um i mean in my case the the the
keyboard scams
on the watch you couldn't even type on
them
to save your life um and so
it's also ironic because my app um as a
completely separate issue was getting
rejected on on
initially on not being easy to use while
a lot of other keyboards were out there
like where they were not usable at all
um but yeah for me like the really
important fact is
and if you go to the definition this is
like the the dishonesty and the
um how they're designed to deceive
people and then
these breadcrumbs that are left by
people who complain about it and
eventually you know it's only a matter
of time before
all this evidence becomes apparent at
the minimum in terms of
reviews on the app store
and that's where the key is so you have
you've looked at enough data and a lot
not enough apps to kind of have an idea
of what does
a scam look like in terms of numbers
more so than anything else so
reviews versus ratings is something that
you look at a lot and i see in in most
of your tweets there's
a screenshot of an app that maybe we'll
talk about in a little bit
uh but something that you have where you
can say
easily based on the data it kind of
feels like
it's something is iffy and it's hard to
say we talked about this before
how it's hard to say yes this is a scam
absolutely because
i don't think that's that takes a lot of
work to figure out but even based on the
numbers you have an
an idea right
yes definitely and and um
i i'd say what what initiated this so i
built my own
uh tool like as i started looking at
scams
and you might wonder you know why did i
start looking at scams
after apple took down at least some of
the scammers that were competing with me
um what happened and what what initiated
uh
everything else was i got a tip from a
person
that told me about this app called
stargazer so stargazer
is a scam i think that's gonna live in
infamy um
because it was so widely featured and it
was the worst
scam um that i had ever seen at that
point and
one of the biggest tells there was a
discrepancy
between as you pointed out ratings and
reviews so this app had like 4.5 or 4.7
ratings you know ratings that the
developers just
sweat and pour in sweat and blood to to
get
um and the reviews were
something like 1.5 stars so if you were
to only consider
the reviews the average rating of a
review was
was barely a little bit over what would
be the minimum
the one star because you cannot give
zero stars
and so that indicated to me that
these scammers are essentially buying
their ratings
which um you know they can buy ratings
and reviews and apple tries to do to
police that and
take some of that down um but it seems
like they're not doing a good enough job
nowhere near it
and what these cameras were doing in
particular i would call
them quite lazy because they were just
maybe cheap and lazy because
they were only buying their ratings but
they were not bothering with buying
reviews fake positive reviews and so the
ratings were stellar but the reviews
were like the worst basically you would
open up this 4.5 star app and every
review would be a one star complaining
about it being a scam
pretty much um and so at that point like
with that kind of discrepancy
uh it became obvious to me that that
that they're manipulating the system
and then i looked a little deeper i
looked at their other apps uh i looked
at other apps that they had that
were actually taken down previously uh
you know all these signs where
when you put everything together it just
becomes obvious and
that scam maybe um would live in it for
me as i said because
i posted about it and then so much of
the tech press covered it
and what was insane to me was that it
took
apple two months to take that one down
and even then i'm not sure like what the
internal deliberations and decisions
were but
um to me it was one of the clearest
scams and even with all the visibility
that they got
they didn't seem to to really act or act
swiftly enough
and even worse they missed another
developer account operated by the same
people
which was doing um even bigger scams and
i want to remind people here that
when i talk about big scams these are
not just like some small apps on the
side somewhere that you know
nobody really is downloading is these
are million dollar
top grossing apps sometimes they've
stayed top grossing for months or
years and so it's it's
you know heartbreaking to know that
there's all these developers legitimate
developers are trying their best trying
their hardest
and then apple basically allows all this
stuff to happen
that is that's the one point if i
remember in the beginning of this
journey on twitter
the one point people are really up
against they're like oh it's impossible
that they made so much money
even big names really big twitter
accounts well i went against this
and the the reason i want i had to make
sure that's true it's because all that
is using our estimates data
so if that's wrong that means we're
wrong and we're not wrong um and it took
us
we actually spent a lot of time our data
science team just to back up
all the data that you've been putting on
twitter to make sure that it's right
and that we're not putting anything
wrong out there quietly we didn't tell
anyone but just in case anyone asked
so um so i'm i'm yes i'm confident that
these are like you were saying top
grossing and you can see that in the
rank so you can see it in their
performance
and then the thing i love most about
looking at this data is
things are great and then one day they
just kind of die
and that one day is either when when you
tell apple about them
through the the twitter vine or when
apple eventually realizes if that it
has that happened have you seen cases in
which a scam just disappeared all on its
own
um i don't think so i mean
sometimes it's also not uh you know you
cannot know for sure what happened when
an app disappears
uh you know to what extent it's apple
taking down or the developers taking
down but
um you know generally i can't imagine
developers that
have an app that's making a ton of money
out there every day
just decided to pull it down themselves
yeah um as even
as if somehow they can hide from they
can
hide their history from apple uh and so
um no i i it seems to be that
you know apple is the one that needs to
be policing the store needs to be
responding to complaints
um and and what is baffling in all this
is that we don't have as users and as
developers we don't have an easy and
obvious way
that works in terms of reporting these
things to apple
because i don't know if you remember but
it was i think
a few years back maybe 2016 with ios 7
or eight one of the big redesigns
um apple used to have a reported problem
button
inside the page of every app on the app
store
so if you you know you notice something
iffy or without even having to download
the app
you could report this to apple and i'm
sure that you know there was some abuse
by that you can imagine how that system
you know it's not going to be foolproof
but
they actually removed that button with
with that redesign they removed it
entirely and so
now you have to go to
reportproblem.apple.com or contact their
support
and it's a very awkward way of trying to
report everything
where normally you just have the context
right there you know the app
the most natural place to to report it
from would be
its own page and it seems that
apple for whatever reason decided to
just throw away
that signal altogether and again there
could be some noise in that signal but
it
strikes me as one of the most valuable
signals that
um you could use i mean the most
valuable information would be inside
that signal
like all the legitimate reports would be
part of that system
and they just basically decided to
ignore it and then
they seem to also ignore the reviews
which which are complaints like people
that don't know how to report something
to apple what are they gonna do they're
gonna go
and write a review and i've seen so many
of these where are they saying you know
apple please that this
you have to remove this from the app
store like this these are scammers
um and that was like a year or two ago
and the app is still there and it's just
it's just mind-boggling
yeah and so i'm so thankful to have
figures of course for the data because
this is not something i could have done
myself it's uh
it'll be practically impossible to just
you know
gather all this this data so it's
immensely useful and i'm
very thankful to you ariel for providing
all the data oh i'm glad we can help in
this
i think it's it's one of those things
that's extremely important and i think
you touched on all the points why this
is a problem so
i as a developer know that if one i have
competition
that is not even real competition it's a
company that's not set out to build a
better product they're not set out
to help my kind of users they're not set
out to do anything good
in this sense other than make their
pockets bigger that's a problem for me
especially if i can't go to anyone any
single authority and say hey
can you help me i want to focus on
making apps i don't want to focus on
legal battles i don't want to focus on
trying to figure out how to sue a
company that's not even in the same
country as me
so the laws are very different so even
if i do know the laws in my country
i don't know the laws over there and
that's i think that's asking a lot and
it's asking the smaller developers to
invest probably more money that they can
into legal battles
and it's just not going to happen i see
a lot of the comments in the chat and
in a way it feels like apple just forgot
about that
quality aspect and i think that's what
you talk about a lot of the time
apple is saying hey we are here for you
we are protecting you
and throughout the court case with epic
over the last few weeks
a lot of the conversation was around we
can't allow things to happen without our
control
because people will take advantage of
them and they do and apple does an
amazing job i'm not going to lie and i
love apple for what they do i think
the app store is a great is a great
platform for developers big and small
but it's it's one of those things that
is just such a big challenge
and there are a lot of questions about
how apple can do this
um but i think the question of should
they do this is not a
it's not a it's a clear one you know
it's yeah they should
they should definitely do more with this
so i think the the question here is how
can they do more with this
and why are they not um but everything
you bring up
is uh is right on the money i hope
someone from apple is listening
if someone from apple is listening
please raise your hand quietly
so apple doesn't know yeah i mean i
could i couldn't agree more and i think
another dynamic for why they're not
doing more is
it goes back to you know the whole
reasons for the trial uh the epic trial
uh and by the way i should disclose here
uh that i have also filed a lawsuit
against apple
uh in part complaining about uh the
proliferation of scam apps
um and so going back to it
it seems that um you know when you think
about competition that there's some
arguments about whether they have
competition or not but the reality is
that
there is no competing app store on their
platform
and so that in itself
given that they have all these users
that developers you know want to reach
it means that developers have almost no
choice and
apple has limited incentive to fix
things because
of course they want to fix things enough
that people
[Music]
feel like comfortable downloading stuff
from the app store
but a way around that is to um
also mislead people with their marketing
where they literally claim that the app
store is a place that you can trust
um and they keep talking about how they
monitor and policy and how they have
uh these moderators that and reviewers
that every day they scan the app store
for the top grossing apps and and ensure
uh you know quality and whatnot
but but i have found so many examples uh
throughout the last few months i think
somebody pointed out i haven't done the
tally but somebody pointed out that
maybe i have exposed
over 100 million worth uh 100 million
dollar worth of scams and so
oh wow in in top grossing apps that have
stayed there for months or years
sometimes and so it just doesn't seem
that what they claim
matches reality um and so
users get scammed they might lose 10 20
they might not consider it such a big
deal because they might feel like okay
maybe it was my fault that i got scammed
i shouldn't have gotten scammed i should
have been more careful
um but but but that doesn't put enough
pressure on apple i mean you see
quarter after quarter they break records
with the profits the revenues the
downloads on the app store
um and so i think this is a thought
experiment if there was
an actual competing app store and you
know maybe helps to imagine like a
google
app store on ios i think apple would
improve their practices real fast and
both
in terms of policing the store for scams
in terms of
the commissions you know in terms of so
many other things
that's a very interesting thought uh
there is someone else suing apple for
pretty much the same reason the guy who
made cydia
i read an article he's doing the same
thing also for
basically making it hard to improve on
this
by not allowing other stores hence not
allowing any sort of competitiveness
competition for them which is an
interesting thought
um i guess we'll let the court decide so
what's how that is going to evolve
it's going to be really tough i think
having having additional stores on the
iphone because what the iphone
represents
but that's a whole you know whole other
thing there's actually a conversation
that's slowly developing in the chat
stemming from a question about tinder
that i
that our tim brought up so artem is
saying that tinder
is exhibiting some of the same kind of
trends that you mentioned not too long
ago
regarding popularity of uh ratings
versus
reviews and um and first i i mean i'm
sure you know how to respond to this
because
it's probably not the first time someone
asks you why but
um i just want to go back to the point
that i made before it's very hard to say
with 100 certainty this app is a scam
based on you know these signals these
signals are a great trigger
to for someone to look into it and and
play with the app and download the app
and see if it actually does anything
that's really shady but
it's hard to just say blanket no the
ratings here don't match this is 100
and i think tinder is one of those and
um there were some responses that i saw
in the chat as well from vlad and from
others who were saying that
um there is a reason so people are
hating on tinder and they're leaving
these negative reviews
because something tinder did to them um
got banned i think in that case
so there are some situations that will
definitely mislead the data into maybe
seeming like it is
i would say those are rare i think
tinder is an exception in this case
how do you how do you see this yes
yeah i would like to elaborate i guess
on what i said earlier with regards to
the discrepancy between rating and
review so
what i notice is that when we're
considering an app that's like
an obvious scam and it's like a very low
or zero utility app like
a dog whistle app that's like 520
dollars
a year that's an app that
the vast majority of people if not
almost everyone
will quickly decide whether they're
going to be using it or not and whether
it's a scam or not
it's not an app that they're going to
invest a lot of time and effort in
and so with an app like tinder i imagine
that
it's very possible that uh you know you
start off feeling like great about it
and then
uh weeks and months later you have some
bad experience
which may or may not relate to the app
itself and so you get very
like extremely emotional and having been
so invested like
i can totally see uh you know a bigger
discrepancy justified between ratings
and reviews
for apps like that but for you know this
stargazing app like
um you don't like you you see the
reviews and they're like
well uh i i point at the sky and it's
showing me things that are from a
different hemisphere
uh like it's telling me the sun is up
when it's like nighttime
so um you know that's that's the kind of
app that you would immediately like
make a judgment call and decide okay
this is a bad app and i'm gonna rate it
uh one star and so in a case like that i
wouldn't expect to see
a lot or almost any positive reviews
that would create a discrepancy
yeah that that explains it and like i
said the the minute you look at it with
your own set of eyes and a human brain
and not just looking at ratings
you can tell if you read the reviews you
see it
if you look at the app and the first
thing that it does is ask you to pay
you will see it and yet there are so
many analogs of this from the web
the web is full of these things and
they're not exactly a scam so if
you've ever had to look at a at a credit
report for example
um you know that as soon as you log into
one of those websites the legitimate
ones the experience and the um
i forgot all their names as soon as you
log in the first thing they say is oh
pay us
and there's a little button on the
bottom that says i don't want that i
just want to get what i came here for
which is the thing
you advertised before and so on the web
that's
kind of allowed because there's no
police but then apple says don't do that
so i think that's where the discrepancy
is and that's i think where we get into
this little territory of
no no this is not just about negative
ratings this is about an app that's
lying to its users
there's also an extension from oh go
ahead
there's a little bit of a delay it's
making a little accord um i i was gonna
say that
you know i i also i'm not like
anti-apple
uh in a heretic way i i love what they
do with the hardware and all of the
things i love my apple watch
um but i think they are in many ways
complicit
in all of this because what you're
talking about is really dark patterns
right patterns that
essentially uh trick you or coerce you
using psychological tricks
um to to do something that perhaps you
wouldn't otherwise
if you had like a more objective uh
portrayal of of of things enough of the
facts in front of you
um and one of the things that i find
really
fascinating is how uh with regards to
subscriptions how
it's gotten a little better now but it's
still
not the case that you can stop your
subscription as easily as you can start
it
right you start a subscription in an app
as most people would expect
to find a managed subscription or
cancellation
function inside the app itself um
and yet apple enforces you
you know enforces the restore purchases
button but doesn't
worry at all about the cancellation or
manage
and there's many other similar things
that they do but i think
in a way almost invite a lot of people
in fact even people that start out as
legitimate developers
to slowly go towards the dark side
right and particularly once once they do
like i've heard i've heard stories um
like
once once you go and buy some ratings
and you see that it works and there's no
consequences why would you not do that
again
and do more of it and what that does is
it makes
others around you that are competing in
the same space feel like
well why am i not doing that like maybe
i should do that too
and so it becomes a race
to all these bad practices which i think
you know the combination of that are the
really super egregious scams that i post
about and that you see and notice
um but there's a lot of other things
that that are going on that shouldn't be
going on i think
yeah i agree i mean i do want to say
something in apple's favor
and that is if you look at what's
happening on google play because i look
at both stores very often
all the time um it's not even comparable
so it's not like you can say
apple's not doing it we do say apple's
not doing enough but i think our bar is
very much higher at this point than
anything else that's out there in
existence
and it's a good point that you brought
out before none of this here this
conversation has nothing to do with us
hating on apple
not at all i love apple i love the app
store i think it's an amazing
opportunity and what it
what it evolved into also provides
amazing opportunities some people take
more advantage of it
than others some need to be educated
before they can take advantage
but the possibility is there it's a land
of opportunity in a way
and it is police that's the kind of the
only thing it's police but like
a little bit more and it will be so much
better
and i think that's kind of what we're
touching on here
that we we'd love to see this a little
bit more because it's we're so close
um and and we can see that happening
yeah and so what i felt is like i i've
been thinking about it since i was
affected
personally and then i heard so many
stories of other people affected
and realized the scale of this i was
like thinking to myself you know what it
is
is it that i can do um to
make this better to to bring awareness
assuming that awareness
uh and you know shedding some light on
this is what is going to
further incentivize apple to do the
right thing because i do think that
you know overall they want to do the
right thing
um but you know it saddens me that it
has to come to this
uh rather than them being more proactive
and not letting this
get to this point i mean and i finished
stories from developers that
uh are like totally fed up with
developing for apple platforms as well
as users who are like
saying that they don't browse the store
to download apps unless they know
exactly what app
it is that they want and then they go
directly
and download it and so in a way i've
concluded that
as far as ratings and reviews are
concerned as a user
you should basically ignore them like
they offer
no information uh unfortunately
the the only real or the most real part
rather of reviews
in my opinion is are the ones that
accuse an app of being a scam
essentially
effectively because those are the ones
that when there is a scam out there
you're going to get those eventually and
so there is a truth to that but when
it's mixed with
so much uh other um
you know part part of the signal is like
so much so
fake then it's really hard to discern
and so
that's why and talking about the app you
mentioned earlier that's why i'm trying
to build the tool
utilizing and leveraging your data from
up figures
to show people um a few metrics
and and also specifically the reviews
that i i deem are
very important for them to make a more
educated decision as to whether they
want to download
or buy an app or not and also
for developers to in the same way assess
whether the competition could be
engaging in in you know doing tricks
that
are trying to scam users or not
and i think for uh for a more developer
oriented form this is kind of the point
the point is if you don't know who
you're competing with
you're going to be in trouble because if
they're not doing that great
awesome if they are doing that you kind
of have to know even if you have no
immediate recourse
even if going the legal route is very
difficult or very expensive or really
untenable
it's still something you can keep in
mind and then you know what you're up
against
so i i think that's important on both
sides i'm out of curiosity of the people
here
i should start a poll let's just do it
in the chat how many of you are
developers versus
users of apps apps and games
let's see users both okay both is good
yep i guess def also means user at this
point yeah so i think we're more user
focused here
which i mean yeah we're more dev focused
i should say
definitely yeah i see a lot of
developers
yeah it makes sense um would you use
would you go in
and and check how your competitors are
keeping up
if you were given i mean technically you
can do all that with us right now the
the app makes it a little bit easier but
all the data is there so you can go and
you can keep track of your competitors
and you can see how the ratings stack up
so i saw a mention in the chat
about ratings being very very straight
for one of their competitors then going
up to 300 new ratings
that's exactly the kind of stuff i think
you want to look for especially if you
know that nothing else big is going on
yes and i say a comment about um the
desire to have an easier way to analyze
these things
and and this is where i'm coming from
really with leveraging all this data
uh it's amazing that you have all this
data and it can be used in so many ways
and you know as you know um if you want
a particular use case it's
it's it's better to try and build the
product around
that use case and essentially not show
other things that are not so relevant
and bring the things that are primarily
geared towards
assessing whether an app is scamming
users or not and bring those into focus
into a you know the different nuggets of
information
all in one screen so you can have an
overview very quickly and kind of make a
judgment
as to whether you want to go deeper
because you know nothing like that is
ever going to replace being able to go
and
slice and dice you know the full data
that figures provides
and i think that's the key here the key
here is that little trigger
that little kind of should i keep
looking into this or
it doesn't look okay um there was
another or temez uh
is mentioning i've mentioned the few
apps also in the chat
uh that does also have this imbalance
between ratings and reviews
and uh i mentioned the hbo max so i just
looked it up in the app actually
and i don't think it's actually
exhibiting these the exact same trends
it looks pretty
like they have a not so great ratings
average and not so great reviews average
and i think any app that charges money
for something that you want and is big
enough that you feel like complaining
would help
will probably get it these days uh there
was actually an interesting thing with
facebook they got hit with i think 1.8
million negative ratings on google play
because of politics a few weeks ago so
these things will happen and again we
need that little trigger but for most
apps that compete with you unless you're
competing with hbo max
you should be using real competitive
intelligence like the stuff we have in
the competitors report
but for the smaller apps and for the
apps that you don't know enough about
they're not like
the kind of brands that you talk about
at home at those that's where you the
pattern will
repeat itself probably over and over
yes and we should clarify here also that
um it is expected to have
a lower average rating when you consider
reviews only because
um the people that are you know most
upset they're going to be
more likely to be more vocal and so
they're going to add some text
to the rating so it's going to
constitute a review so reviews are
always
or almost always i should say are going
to be like more negative
somewhat more negative than the average
star rating but
it's like the amount of the discrepancy
coupled with
what the negative reviews are actually
saying as well as the patterns over time
and whether these are consistently you
know all those things together
uh and even more things like does the
developer have a lot of other apps
what do their other apps look like from
the same perspective
you know all those things together paint
the picture for you
and can help you understand this better
yeah i think if once you look at it it
makes sense but
so going back to the the impact we kind
of deconstructed what how you look at a
scam and what you consider to be a scam
both on the number
side and also on kind of the um the
qualitative side
and we even talked about the impact to
users which cost money but they may not
uh care about it too much the impact of
developers is that it
kind of erodes that sort of confidence
right and also
really could position you as a
competitor or could could hurt you like
it did to you
how from the data that you've seen how
wide spread is this
well um that's a great question and it's
something that i've been working towards
answering and so all the research i've
done
and and you know my tool is is more
elaborate than the tool that i
hope to offer to developers uh
at the beginning at least um i have
found
hundreds and hundreds of scams and so
all indications point to the fact that
the fraudulent revenue associated with
fraudulent apps
is going to be measured in the billions
not not even millions
um and so it's quite alarming the
the actual amount someone could say you
know proportionally it's not that much
because of the overall revenue of the
app store
um but then you know you look at like
credit card fraud and one to two percent
or three or whatever it is like some
small percent but it really adds up and
i think
a big part of of what would be great
and and align incentives for developers
and for apple and for users and make
everything better essentially is
if apple this is an idea if apple were
to offer a guarantee of source where
when they do detect a scam app and they
take it down
that you would get your money back even
if you didn't ask for it because
they know who downloaded an app right
and so one of the problems right now
it seems that when apple does find out a
scam
they take it down but they don't refund
anyone unless
someone asks for it and you know
refunding also
is has been made easier in recent years
but it's still also not nowhere near as
easy i think as it could be
which should roughly be as easy as
starting a subscription almost
and so i think apple being on the hook
for scans
would align them much better with both
developers
uh and users and so the the way that
the the scale of the problem manifests
today is
is it's a little bit sneaky because you
don't get to see it as much
right you don't always get affected
every day by by scan maps but
on occasion here or there you and a
billion other people together
you know that is a lot of scam activity
and um
i think over time it erodes a trust both
from for developers in assuming that
apple is doing a good job policing the
store
uh and as well as users and i think you
mentioned something very important with
with the app and giving you kind of like
the trigger to eventually go and
dive deeper and see what's going on and
i would say even before that
what people need to realize is that even
though apple is supposed to be policing
the store the extent
to which they do and how good of a job
or not they're doing
you know should be questioned you
shouldn't take it for granted you need
to start
from that thought that you cannot just
assume because that's one thing i did at
some point once i
i kind of realized that my competitors
were doing all these fake ratings i was
like any day now
any day i was gonna take them down
there's no way like they keep buying
ratings and reviews every day like
there's no way like and then nothing was
happening
and so you know at the end of the day we
do have to be sort of
vigilantes if you want and like try to
bring justice
ourselves in whatever way um and
hopefully
apple is gonna you know notice more and
pay more attention and do a better job
but we just shouldn't take it for
granted that they're going to take care
of everything
if if you could ask apple let's say
someone from apple is in the crowd
and you can ask them for anything you
want that you think would be ideal and
would serve this purpose in a way that
also is
reasonable and realistic what do you
think apple can do
within its obviously it has a lot of
money but it doesn't have
all the money in the universe so they
still have these constraints what do you
do then
well for one i think they need to make
it much easier to report apps basically
the way it used to be
and the way it is on google play where
you can flag an app
or even flag a review because you can
start from the reviews alone and
if enough reviews of an app are flagged
then you can use that as a signal
and so today you can flag a review but
you have to long press you know this is
not a discoverable gesture at all
so just increase the visibility which i
think they don't they kind of
don't want to do it also because they
don't want to
be offering a reminder to people that
maybe there's fraudulent stuff going on
the app store but i think they need to
just
for the most part be more more
forthcoming and and admit
that there is a problem um and that they
need
everyone's help essentially like almost
crowdsourcing
uh in order to solve it and then the
other thing that they can do is
completely revamp the way that
discovery and the ratings and review
system works
so i think i mean when you look back
the ratings and reviews online it's a
system that was primarily pioneered by
jeff bezos of amazon you know
back in the 90s we haven't seen much or
almost any innovation
in that uh it used to be great to think
that you can get all these
recommendations online from other people
and see and make a more informed
decision but
when you get to the point that the the
system can be gained
so easily you reach threshold whereby
the system itself
it makes it worse because people have a
false
sense of security and trust both from
apple's claims as well as
from the fraudulent reviews and ratings
so they think that an app is
you know stellar when it really isn't it
could be further from the truth
and so bringing a more trustworthy
system
in whatever way they can do which i
think they can do because
they have all this data about our
accounts you know the users
when they see an account just created
like a day ago and
is only used to rate some apps that
appear to be fraudulent you know just
just do something about it um and so a
more trustworthy system and then
you have all this other data like app
usage
um and refund request rates and whatnot
that they could
expose maybe not exactly as they are but
like
package them in a nice way where you can
tell
you can more easily tell a scam up from
from you know a good
legitimate developer you know really
trying hard and doing their best so
i think it's time for a big abstract
reset of
sorts um you know i even offered the
suggestion that perhaps
they should reset all the ratings and
reviews and i know that would be also to
the detriment of a lot of
honest developers that have worked super
hard to get those ratings but i think if
somehow apple managed to create a much
more trustworthy rating system
would be better off at least discarding
you know reviews and ratings that are
over i don't know a year old or
something
um and and start mostly mostly fresh
because there's so much
that has happened that has accumulated
in terms of the ratings and reviews that
you know anything short of eliminating
those accumulated ratings and reviews
is not going to help immediately it's
only going to help
long term if they fix the ratings from
here on you know so
uh i think there's a lot of things they
can do and i don't think it's you know a
trivial problem but i think mainly they
need to
appreciate the fact that there is a
problem uh it is a known problem
and it's in everyone's interests to
actually do something and invest
we look at some emails from the trial
that have been
you know coming out to light and you can
see
uh super senior people over there
arguing
already seven years into the app store
that they need to have
a team an engineering team within app
review to develop some tools like just
10 people or so and they're practically
begging for it and saying it's not right
that we we cannot have
our own dedicated engineers we have no
engineering cycles to you know solve
these problems
so it seems that it just hasn't been a
priority so
prioritize this more is what i would say
to apple
all that makes sense i don't really have
anything else to add to this
it's a it's interesting because google
changed how they handle ratings so
on the store now the ratings that you
see the distribution
is no longer the actual number of
ratings that were added over time they
devalue
ratings over time so if an app does get
it to a point where they buy ratings
they're going to have to continue buying
ratings and
we don't exactly know how much time they
take to devalue things it could be a
very long period of time
but that's at least a step in towards
that towards the
the current situation is fresh ish
and that's that's interesting um i think
any changes that could come to
the rating system to the review system
um i remember that in 20 i want to say
i sat on a panel with a bunch of people
and we talked at a conference
at alt wwdc actually and one of the
questions
that was presented was do you think
apple will allow you to reply to reviews
i think it was 2015 maybe 2014. and we
came up with all these
crazy ideas for how apple can do that
and they can
create this sort of like two-way
communication system for developers and
eventually they added the ability to
reply to reviews which you can do now
and you should be using
um but it's it's still it's just one
thing
that can improve it i think the kind of
ideas that you put out there
they're very interesting if you can
attach them so a little bit more context
to what does this review
yes and for example you could see
reviews
other reviews by the same person which i
think maybe you could
many years back and they remove that
ability uh which you know
would bring more credibility to the
whole system because you will be able to
better understand you know is this
account just going and reviewing only
their apps or some fraudulent apps or
not and
perhaps it's a privacy issue there but
as uh as long as apple
um makes it clear that if you submit the
review then you know people are gonna be
able to see that
in other reviews uh i think there are a
lot of ways that you can
you can leverage uh you know the the
connections between reviewers and
reviews and
bring more trust to the system i i also
wanted to point out
something else i see in the comments and
it's very important to
highlight which is the current
misalignment
um with regards to incentives for apple
to fix these issues because
you know it sounds terrible and it is
apple is making money
from scam apps and from apps that
artificially inflate their ratings
so not only is it like something neutral
to them
but it's actually something that is
making them money and
if one were to think you know an
alternative universe where the ratings
were actually super trustworthy and you
only had the real true ratings of every
app
i bet that the average app rating would
drop
by a meaningful amount and so overall
you know i'm not saying every app you
know legitimate developers that have
worked super hard to get a 4.7 rating or
not
that wouldn't change but overall the
ratings would be suppressed
and so i do think downloads and
therefore revenue would be suppressed as
well
and so that's another way where apple is
indirectly incentivized to just let the
fraudulent ratings also
just keep going because it makes
everything appear
better than it is which leads to more
downloads and more revenues
um i i agree but i also i think if you
think about it in the grand scheme of
things
even if it's a billion dollar problem
for apple and they're making let's say
even though they lower that to 15 in
some cases is that still enough
to have conversations like these go on
out there in the wild so
i i don't know if it's just that or if
maybe there are additional problems that
from a process standpoint it can be very
difficult to do from a technical
standpoint
it can cause you can look at if you read
hacker news you'll see how many people
are furious where google decides that
they're doing something shady on google
play
and bands their account without any
human in the middle interacting
and that's google's way of just saying
we're going to keep our store clean
it that doesn't happen and a lot of
people are unhappy so it's kind of a
lose-lose
and i don't think apple wants that so
maybe the investment is
it's not a matter of we're making money
so yes we're gonna
we're gonna keep that those coins but
it's more about i
we just need to build a way that works
and it's not as straightforward
yes yes of course i want to elaborate a
little bit on that because what i'm
saying is that
effectively they are you can see how
they could be disincentivized in that
when you have a team in there and you
know they're they're talking about
meeting their targets and the the
metrics that they're looking for
uh and you look at revenues you can
imagine that there would be scenarios
where
somebody might think you know i'm going
to bring in this change
and propose it and then it's going to
reduce my team's revenue
and so maybe i'm not gonna get a
promotion that way
uh maybe i'm gonna get a promotion if i
focus more on other things that
you know the top line metrics uh would
be influenced uh
more directly in the in in the direction
that that they
that they want to be influenced and so
um
i think it's not as clear cut and i
think uh it it
ultimately stems from what is it that
you're trying to
improve and so if you cannot measure it
as the same goes then you can't improve
it and clearly
if we can see that apple is doing a not
so great job
at policing the fake reviews and fake
ratings and scam apps
it must mean that the way they measure
them
themselves is not very accurate and so
if you don't have an accurate way to
measure it you don't have an accurate
way to know if you're doing better
or not so i think there are a lot of
components that kind of feed into this
situation
including the lack of competition that
just let them prioritize
other things and just keep pushing the
task of
kind of cleaning up the the system and
the app store and the scans and the
ratings
um for yet another quarter and yet
another quarter and get another quarter
and conversations like these
um uh you know like this one now and
maybe some others more recently i think
it's more of a recent phenomenon it's
not that scams have not been exposed
before
but i think there's much more of that
now and hopefully that's
going to feed back to their priorities
and then readjusting them at least
somewhat yeah that's a valid point
i think the more the app store growth
the the more growth we see in the app
store the more money there is in the app
store the more downloads there are so
the more opportunities
and when you have a lot of opportunities
you have a lot of people who want to
take advantage in any way that they can
so hopefully we'll see apple act more on
this
i mean they are taking down the apps
that you're putting out there maybe not
as fast as we would like maybe not as
uh as fast as we would like but there is
something that's happening
and so that's um that's pretty useful
that it's a good sign a positive sign in
my opinion
i think so i mean i hope something good
is going to come out of it
and yes i can say that more recently
they seem to be taking up
apps down even faster than before so it
used to be like a day or two
now sometimes let's say within five
hours or so an app is taken down so
it gives me hope that they pay more
attention and hopefully they're taking
this more seriously and they're gonna do
something about it and
who knows maybe we're gonna see
something uh next week with regards to
that
uh i'm not gonna ask we're just gonna
wait until next week
uh yeah i really hope we'll see more
around privacy in general i've been
talking about privacy labels and how
those can be improved for a long time i
would love to see
more around this and we actually are
going to do another af chat not next
week but
the week after next week and i'm going
to invite joe who has been my wwdc guy
after the last i think five years
running and we're going to do a recap of
wwc so hopefully we'll
we'll have to talk about privacy and
we'll have to talk about these sort of
things scams and
the kind of stuff that isn't just
technical the kind of stuff that impacts
your business
but isn't necessarily directly affecting
in that way or that you directly have to
interact with
and i think on that happy note we are
out of time
yep i think we're out of time um is
there anything you want to close with
casa
well um i guess i'd like to again remind
everyone that
i don't have some broad anti-apple
stands i think they're doing a lot of
great things
and i think they can do a lot more great
things and they will
just hopefully they're going to have
pay more attention to these issues that
developers
have been complaining about and really
not just you know appear to be thinking
about developers this
one week of the year but instead really
have
people within apple that are advocating
um
and really pushing for uh you know for
things that are to the benefit of
developers because that really
helps everyone in the long term it helps
the users and
and everyone else so i'm an optimist at
heart and i always
hope for the best even if i may be
planning for the worst
so um you know we'll see what happens
that all sounds good especially the
optimist part um
if people want to get in touch with you
how can they find you on on twitter
right is that your main
main channel of communication these days
yes
so um ke lefterio is my twitter handle
but
most people will have a lot of trouble
spelling that so you can also get to
that very easily
if you just go to appstorescams.com
which is a redirect to my twitter
account for now
yeah pretty much everything i'm working
on right now this is where i post it on
twitter so follow me for updates
more scams as well as um more news
around the tool in the app
that i'm i'm building very good
we didn't get to talk about the app that
much but i have feeling there will be
more on twitter about it
in the weeks to come so you should
definitely follow
sure uh alrighty well thank you for
joining us casa this was awesome
i i can't believe the time just ran out
i had all these questions in my head
which we're not gonna get to but me too
and and hopefully we managed to answer
as many questions as we could in the
crowd i know we didn't get to some of
the questions
but hopefully we covered enough to get
people on the right in the right
direction
otherwise you know what we'll just do
another one yep we'll have to do
maybe a wwdc follow-up well we'll see
what apple does
and if there's anything that we can
continue to dig into
so yeah again thank you and thank you
guys for joining uh wherever you are
if you have to stay up late i'm really
thankful that you stayed up late for
this and hopefully it was worth it
and we'll be doing this again i'll be on
this video again in two weeks
and we will continue alrighty well enjoy
the rest of your day costa and everyone
else
wherever you are and we'll see you next
time
bye
[Music]
you